.\" Manpage for len.
.TH man 1 "5 November 2015" "1.0" "Nonstandard Utility: \fBlen\fR"
.SH NAME
\fBlen\fR \- ensure the line lengths of a plaintext file are within a certain range
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBlen\fR \-h
.PP
\fBlen\fR \-\-help
.PP
\fBlen\fR [\fIOPTIONS\fR] \fIFILE\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.PP
Scan through text files and check if the lengths of all lines (delimited by newline characters) are within a certain range. The current version of \fBlen\fR does not read from standard input.
.PP
By default, \fBlen\fR does not produce any output.
.PP
\fBlen\fR can print all lines that meet the criteria, all lines that do not meet the criteria, or print all lines.
.SH OPTIONS
Mandatory arguments to long options are mandatory for short options as well. Short options that do not require arguments may be combined.
.TP
\fB\-l, \-m, \-\-max\fR \fIMAX_LINE_LENGTH\fR
Set the upper limit of line lengths. This cannot be negative, nor can it be less than the lower limit, described below. Defaults to 80 characters.
.TP
\fB\-M, \-\-min\fR \fIMIN_LINE_LENGTH\fR
Set the lower limit of line lengths. This cannot be negative, nor can it exceed the upper limit. Defaults to 1 character. Newline characters are
counted.
.TP
\fB\-t, \-\-tab\-width\fR \fITAB_WIDTH\fR
Set the number of spaces a tab character is considered equivalent to. Defaults to 8 characters.
.TP
\fB\-p, \-\-print\-offenders\fR
Print lines that do not meet line length criteria. When multiple files are specified, lines are reported in sections with filename headers in the format \-\-|FILENAME|\-\-. Can be specified alongside \-P to print all
lines from all files.
.TP
\fB\-P, \-\-print\-matches\fR
Print lines that meet line length criteria. When multiple files are specified, lines are reported in sections with filename headers in the format \-\-|FILENAME|\-\-. Can be pecified with \-p to print all lines
from all files.
.TP
\fB\-n, \-\-line\-numbers\fR
Prefix lines with line numbers. Has no effect unless one or both of \-p and \-P are specified.
.TP
\fB\-c, \-\-color\fR
Turns on color. Has no effect unless one or both os \-p and \-P are specified. Parts of lines in excess of MAX_LINE_LENGTH will be printed in red. Lines shorter than MIN_LINE_LENGTH will be rear padded with '\-' characters in red. If MIN_LINE_LENGTH is changed from the default value of 1, parts of lines between MIN_LINE_LENGTH and MAX_LINE_LENGTH will be printed in green. Has no effect unless one or both of \-p and \-P are specified.
.TP
\fB\-r, \-\-truncate\fR
Truncates lines longer than MAX_LINE_LENGTH to a length of MAX_LINE_LENGTH and postfixes them with a '+' character in red.
.TP
\fB\-h, \-\-help\fR
Display help and exit.
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
.B \fBlen\fR \fIFILE\fR
Checks \fIFILE\fR to make sure all lines are between 1 and 80 characters long (default behavior).
.TP
\fBlen\fR [\fB\-m\fR MAX] [\fB\-M\fR MIN] \fIFILE\fR
Checks FILE to make sure all lines are between MIN and MAX characters long.
.TP
\fBlen\fR [\fI\-np\fR] \fIFILE\fR
Checks \fIFILE\fR, prints all lines that are out of tolerance, and gives line
numbers
.TP
\fBlen\fR [\fI\-ncp\fR] \fIFILE\fR
Same as above, but uses colors to help visualize how far out of tolerance
each line is.
.TP
\fBlen\fR [\fI\-ncpr\fR] \fIFILE\fR
Same as above, but truncates long lines instead of showing full lines.
.TP
\fBlen\fR [\fI\-P\fR] \fIFILE\fR
Checks \fIFILE\fR and prints out all lines whose lengths are within tolerance.
.TP
\fBlen\fR [\fI\-pP\fR] \fIFILE\fR
Checks \fIFILE\fR and prints out the entire contents of \fIFILE\fR.
.SH EXIT STATUS
.TP
.B 0
All lines in all files were in tolerance
.TP
.B 1
At least one line among all lines read was out of tolerance
.TP
.B 250
Cannot combine options that require arguments
.TP
.B 251
Unrecognized option
.TP
.B 252
Unable to allocate sufficient memory
.TP
.B 253
Could not open specified file
.TP
.B 254
Missing an argument to a flag OR no file specified
.TP
.B 255
No options or arguments given to program
.SH KNOWN ISSUES
.B len
does not ignore lines comprised solely of whitespace save for lines containing a single newline
.PP
.SH AUTHOR
.PP
Written by Wesley Wei